<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_Copy2Dream">
    <title>Booting from the internal microSD card, once you're logged into the system booted from
        root on USB stick</title>
    <shortdesc/>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>To set things up to boot from the internal microSD card, once you're logged into the
                system booted from root on USB stick you can use:
                    <userinput>/usr/sbin/copy2dream</userinput>
                <note>Note that if you don't have a reasonable system date and time set in the
                    DreamPlug before running this command, you may see a long stream of warnings
                    from tar about timestamps being in the future. It is safe to ignore these.
                </note></p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>After copy2dream completes, you may need to update /etc/fstab by hand since
                    copy2dream does not yet understand UUIDs in that file.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>On reboot, you may want to interrupt the boot and type the following to ensure
                    you boot from the internal microSD by default. This bootcmd line elides the
                    time-consuming attempts to boot from gigE, which makes boot go much faster. </cmd>
                <info><note>If you flashed the bootloader, you'll need to replace the *ethaddr* and
                        *eth1addr* lines with the MAC addresses you previously recorded. If you
                        didn't record MAC addresses, completely exclude those two lines.</note>
                    <pre>setenv bootcmd '${x_bootcmd_usb}; ${x_bootcmd_kernel}; ${x_bootcmd_initrd}; setenv bootargs ${x_bootargs} ${x_bootargs_root}; bootm 0x6400000 0x6900000;'
setenv x_bootcmd_kernel fatload usb 0 0x6400000 uImage
setenv x_bootcmd_initrd fatload usb 0 0x6900000 uInitrd
setenv x_bootargs console=ttyS0,115200
setenv x_bootargs_root root=/dev/sda2 rootdelay=10
setenv ethaddr=F0:AD:4E:00:00:00
setenv eth1addr=F0:AD:4E:00:00:01
saveenv
reset</pre></info>
                <stepresult><draft-comment author="rgb"
                        ><pre>    (...) 
                            
 sda: sda1 sda2
sd 1:0:0:0: [sda] No Caching mode page present
sd 1:0:0:0: [sda] Assuming drive cache: write through
sd 1:0:0:0: [sda] Attached SCSI removable disk
Begin: Loading essential drivers ... done.
Begin: Running /scripts/init-premount ... done.
Begin: Mounting root file system ... Begin: Running /scripts/local-top ... done.
Begin: Running /scripts/local-premount ... done.
EXT3-fs (sda2): error: unrecognized mount option "subvol=@" or missing value
mount: Invalid argument
Begin: Running /scripts/local-bottom ... done.
done.
Begin: Running /scripts/init-bottom ... mount: No such file or directory
done.
Could not copy file: No such file or directory
mount: No such file or directory
mount: No such file or directory
Target filesystem doesn't have requested /sbin/init.
No init found. Try passing init= bootarg.
(initramfs) 
</pre></draft-comment>Congratulations,
                    you're done! </stepresult>
            </step>
        </steps>
        <postreq>To connect your DreamPlug to the Internet, plug an Ethernet cord from the box's
            *eth0* port into your router. The *eth0* port is the inner Ethernet port. To connect to
            the Internet through your DreamPlug, plug your computer's Ethernet port into the box's
            eth1 port. The *eth1* port is the outer Ethernet port.</postreq>
    </taskbody>
</task>
