<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_UpdateDreamPlugU-Boot">
    <title>Updating DreamPlug's U-Boot</title>
    <shortdesc><draft-comment author="https://wiki.debian.org/FreedomBox/DreamPlug/Firmware"><xref
                href="https://wiki.debian.org/FreedomBox/DreamPlug/Firmware" format="html"
                scope="external"/></draft-comment></shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context>
            <p>These instructions are from Ian Campbell, using uboot version 2012.04.01-2, which is
                the current version in Debian's Wheezy release. </p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd>Prepare your system:: </cmd>
                <substeps>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd><userinput># wget
                                http://http.debian.net/debian/pool/main/u/u-boot/u-boot_2012.04.01-2_armel.deb
                            </userinput></cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd><userinput># dpkg-deb -x u-boot_2012.04.01-2_armel.deb
                                u-boot_2012.04.01-2_armel </userinput></cmd>
                    </substep>
                    <substep>
                        <cmd><userinput># cp -r u-boot_2012.04.01-2_armel/usr/lib/u-boot/dreamplug
                                /mnt</userinput></cmd>
                    </substep>
                </substeps>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Move the USB drive to your DreamPlug, and connect to your system via the JTAG
                    dongle. Connect the UART DreamPlug port to the JTAG Board's UART port or connect
                    the JTAG DreamPlug port to the JTAG Board's JTAG port. Next, plug the USB cord
                    into your main system and access the serial port with::<userinput># screen
                        /dev/ttyUSB0 115200</userinput></cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Now, interrupt the boot process so you can flash it from within the bootloader,
                    before the GNU/Linux system takes over:: </cmd>
                <info><pre>> usb start
> fatload usb 2 0x6400000 dreamplug/u-boot.kwb
> sf probe 0
> sf erase 0x0 0x80000
> sf write 0x6400000 0x0 0x${filesize}</pre></info>
                <info><pre>You must, of course, fill in the size of u-boot.kwb file you're loading in hex. That will make the last command look like:

    > sf write 0x6400000 0x0 0x2FDEC 

Note that there is no $ in that command.

To convert the file's size to hex, try entering the file size in bytes (which you can get from running ls -l u-boot.kwb at a command prompt) into the following search:

    https://duckduckgo.com/?q=10 in hex 

This handy table lists the file sizes for all versions we know of:

    Modification Date
    	

    File Size
    	

    Hex Size
    	

    md5sum

    May 31, 2012, 21:19
    	

    196076
    	

    2FDEC
    	

    4312c71b98049eab73332a3f283a1c5c

At this point, you should be able to reset the DreamPlug and have it boot to a serial console prompt. 
If that fails, you'll need real JTAG magic to try again.</pre><note>Note
                        that freedom-maker now includes DreamPlug firmware in the FAT partition on
                        USB stick targets. To use a freedom-maker USB stick to update your u-boot,
                        ignore the instructions above about how to wget and extract the firmware,
                        and just connect to the DreamPlug and follow the bootloader instructions.
                    </note></info>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
