<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_UnbrickDreamPlug">
    <title>Unbricking a DreamPlug</title>
    <shortdesc>Sometimes, things go wrong when updating the firmware (notably: when you restart the
        DreamPlug between the "sf erase" and "sf write" commands), and you'll need to completely
        recover the system from scratch. Follow these instructions. </shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context><p>Recover the system from scratch.</p></context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <cmd/>
                <choices>
                    <choice><draft-comment author="README&lt;freedom-maker>"> DreamPlug Reflash
                            U-Boot Guide</draft-comment>You should first try to follow the [simpler
                        instructions from
                        GlobalScale](https://code.google.com/p/dreamplug/downloads/detail?name=DreamPlug-Reflash%20uboot%20guide_%20Aug-28-2012.pdf&amp;can=2&amp;q=).
                        Search for the "[Reflash uboot
                        guide](https://code.google.com/p/dreamplug/downloads/list)" if the link
                        doesn't work.</choice>
                    <choice>If those instructions don't work, you should then try these
                        instructions. These instructions were copied and edited from: <xref
                            href="https://www.newit.co.uk/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=t9b8s83gen1h10m65p0s3q4md6&amp;topic=2835.0/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=t9b8s83gen1h10m65p0s3q4md6&amp;topic=2835.0"
                            format="html" scope="external"
                            >https://www.newit.co.uk/forum/index.php?PHPSESSID=t9b8s83gen1h10m65p0s3q4md6&amp;topic=2835.0</xref></choice>
                </choices>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Edit your /etc/apt/sources.list to make sure you're using Wheezy or
                    later.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>First, install the required packages:<userinput>$ sudo apt-get install openocd
                        telnet screen</userinput></cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Connect &amp; Power up your device with the mini usb cable and JTAG.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Open a terminal session and connect to the plug console:<userinput> $ sudo
                        screen /dev/ttyUSB0 115200</userinput></cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Open a 2nd terminal session. <userinput>$ wget
                        http://www.downloadsnewit.co.uk/u-boot/recovery/dreamplug/u-boot.elf</userinput><userinput>
                        $ sudo openocd -f /usr/share/openocd/scripts/board/sheevaplug.cfg -s
                        /usr/share/openocd/scripts</userinput></cmd>
                <stepresult>You should see output similar to this:
                    <pre>        Open On-Chip Debugger 0.4.0 (2010-10-08-15:52)
        Licensed under GNU GPL v2
        For bug reports, read
           http://openocd.berlios.de/doc/doxygen/bugs.html
        2000 kHz
        trst_and_srst separate srst_gates_jtag trst_push_pull srst_open_drain
        jtag_nsrst_delay: 200
        jtag_ntrst_delay: 200
        dcc downloads are enabled
        Warn : use 'feroceon.cpu' as target identifier, not '0'
        Info : clock speed 2000 kHz
        Info : JTAG tap: feroceon.cpu tap/device found: 0x20a023d3 (mfg: 0x1e9, part: 0x0a02, ver: 0x2)
        Info : Embedded ICE version 0
        Info : feroceon.cpu: hardware has 1 breakpoint/watchpoint unit</pre></stepresult>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>If you are using a JTAG and getting errors at this point replug or even swap
                    JTAG cables and retry.</cmd>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Next open a 3rd terminal session. <userinput>$ telnet localhost
                        4444</userinput></cmd>
                <stepresult>Output should look like
                    this:<pre>        Trying ::1...
        Trying 127.0.0.1...
        Connected to localhost.
        Escape character is '^]'.
        Open On-Chip Debugger
        ></pre></stepresult>
            </step>
            <step>
                <cmd>Then, in that third seesion, run: <userinput>reset;sheevaplug_init;load_image
                        u-boot.elf;resume 0x00600000</userinput></cmd>
                <stepresult>Now you should see Uboot starting to run in the 1st terminal session and
                    you are ready to start restoring your plug.<note type="important">**DON'T turn
                        off your DreamPlug.** Follow the <xref
                            href="task_UpdateDreamPlugU-Boot.dita#task_UpdateDreamPlugU-Boot"
                            >"Updating the DreamPlug's U-Boot"</xref>
                    instructions</note></stepresult>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
