<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="task_UpdateFirmware">
    <title>Update your firmware</title>
    <shortdesc>The DreamPlugs as currently shipped by GlobalScale (as of September 1st, 2012) use
        firmware too old to boot the current FreedomBox kernel and will need to be updated.
        DreamPlugs shipped out by the FreedomBox Foundation have already been updated in this way. </shortdesc>
    <taskbody>
        <context><draft-comment author="rgb"><xref href="http://cyrius.com/debian/kirkwood/sheevaplug/uboot-upgrade/"
                    format="html" scope="external"/>: This page describes how to install a new
                version of U-Boot on your plug computer. <xref
                    href="concept_Bootloader.dita#concept_Bootloader">U-Boot</xref> is the boot
                loader used on plug computers.</draft-comment>
            <p>Modern kernels need a relatively recent version of the <xref
                    href="concept_Bootloader.dita#concept_Bootloader">u-boot</xref> firmware. If you
                still use old firmware (including what GlobalScale ships on the units by default),
                then you need to update, which requires having the JTAG dongle (to <xref
                    href="task_GainConsoleSerialPortAccess.dita#task_GainConsoleSerialPortAccess"
                    >gain console serial port access</xref>). One way to know you've got old
                firmware is if booting a Linux kernel results in errors about corrupt gzip data and
                a failure to launch the kernel. </p>
        </context>
        <steps>
            <step>
                <note>Re-flashing firmware will erase all configuration variables! If preserving
                    your exising boot config is important, use printenv and make notes before
                    proceeding. Also note that any time you're re-flashing boot firmware, there is a
                    slight chance you could 'brick' your device leaving it unbootable. If that
                    happens, the JTAG interface can be used to recover. </note>
                <cmd/>
            </step>
        </steps>
    </taskbody>
</task>
